---
title: "k-M-ISIS"
seo_title: "k-M-ISIS"
family: "SIS"
subfamily: "SIS with Hints"
graph_id: "k-M-ISIS"

last_modified_at: 2026-04-29
redirect_from:
  - /k-m-isis/
  - /k_m_isis/
  - /krisis/
  - /k-r-isis/
  - /k_r_isis/
---

Based on the obersation that [$k$-SIS](/ksis/) is trivially insecure for $k \geq m$, Albrecht, Cini, Lai, Malavolta, and Thyagarajan {% cite C:ACLMT22 %} introduce $k$-M-ISIS to overcome these restrictions.
They specialise the assumption to rings, i.e. $k$-R-ISIS, and utilise it to build a vector commitment.

To elaborate on the restriction of $k$-SIS, let $k \geq m$.
Intuitively, the set of hints $\set{\vec{z}_i}\_{i \in [k]}$ forms a short basis trapdoor for $\mat{A}$ if the $\vec{z}\_i$ are linearly independent.
Formally, if the hints are $\mathbb{Q}$-linearly independent, the $\mathbb{Q}\text{-}\text{span}\set{\vec{z}\_i}\_{i \in [k]}$ spans $\ZZ^m$, i.e. there are no valid solutions.
Hence, they introduce a problem called $k$-M-ISIS overcoming these restrictions by imposing an algebraic structure on the images, which is independent of the challenge matrix $\mat{A}$.
This algebraic structure is provided by a Laurent monomial $g \in \mathcal{R}(\mathbf{X})$, i.e. $g(\mathbf{X}) = \mathbf{X}^{\vec{e}} := \prod\_{i \in [w]} X\_i^{e_i}$ for some exponent vector $\vec{e}^t = \begin{bmatrix} e\_1 &\dots &e\_w \end{bmatrix} \in \ZZ^w$.
To rule out trivial wins, they introduce the notion of $k$-M-Admissiblility.

## Definition
As there are some choices for which $k$-M-ISIS is trivially insecure, we need to define $k$-M-Admissible {% cite C:ACLMT22 %} to define admitted instances before we can define $k$-M-ISIS.

### $k$-M-Admissible
_Let $\mathcal{G} \subset \mathcal{R}(\mathbf{X})$ be a set of Laurent monomials with $k := \abs{\mathcal{G}} $. Let $g^{\*} \in \mathcal{R}(\mathbf{X})$ be a target Laurent monomial. We call a family $\mathcal{G}$ $k$-M-ISIS-admissible if_
1. _all $g \in \mathcal{G}$ have constant degree,_
2. _all $g \in \mathcal{G}$ are distinct, i.e. $\mathcal{G}$ is not a multiset, and_
3. _$0 \notin \mathcal{G}$._

_We call a family $(\mathcal{G}, g^{\*})$ $k$-M-ISIS-admissible if $\mathcal{G}$ is $k$-M-ISIS-admissible, $g^{\*}$ has constant degree, and $g^{\*} \notin G$._

To explain the conditions:
- Condition 1 ensures that no monomials are chosen that depend on the ring $\mathcal{R}$.
- Condition 2 rules out that trivial linear combinations of known preimages produce a preimage for the target.
- Condition 3 disallows trivially producing multiple preimages of the same image.

Based on the definition of $k$-M-admissibility, we can provide the $k$-M-ISIS problem.
Let $\mathcal{R}\_q^\times$ contain all invertible elements in $\mathcal{R}\_q$ for this purpose.
Furthermore, $\mat{A}\_s^{-1}(\vec{x})$ defines sampling a preimage from $D\_{\Lambda_q^{\vec{x}}(\mat{A}), s}$ for some vector $\vec{x} \in \mathcal{R}\_q^{n}$.

### $k$-M-ISIS$\_{n,q,\beta,\beta^{\*},m,N,w,s}$ {#k-M-ISIS}
_Let $q \in \ZZ$ be a prime and $\mathcal{R} = \ZZ[X] / (X^N + 1)$. Let $\vec{u}^t = \begin{bmatrix} 1 &0 &\dots &0 \end{bmatrix} \in \mathcal{R}\_q^n$. Let $\mathcal{G} \subset \mathcal{R}(\mathbf{X})$ be a set of $w$-variate Laurent monomials. Let $g^{\*} \in \mathcal{R}(\mathbf{X})$ be a target Laurent monomial. Let $(\mathcal{G}, g^{\*})$ be $k$-M-admissible. Let $\mat{A} \leftarrow \mathcal{R}\_q^{n \times m}, \vec{v} \leftarrow (\mathcal{R}\_q^\times)^w$. Compute for all $g \in \mathcal{G}$ a short vector $\vec{z}\_g \leftarrow \mat{A}\_s^{-1}\left( g(\vec{v}) \cdot \vec{u} \right)$ with $\norm{\vec{z}\_g} \leq \beta$. Given $\mat{A}, \vec{v}, \vec{u}$, and $\set{\vec{z}\_g : g \in \mathcal{G} }$, an adversary is asked to find $\left(s^{\*}, \vec{z}\_{g^{\*}}\right)$ such that the following holds_

$$ \mat{A} \cdot \vec{z}_{g^{*}} = s^{*} \cdot g^{*}(\vec{v}) \cdot \vec{u} \bmod q \land 0 < \norm{s^{*}} \leq \beta^{*} \land \norm{\vec{z}_{g^{*}}} \leq \beta^{*} \land (g^{*}, \vec{z}_{g^{*}}) \neq (0, \vec{0}). $$

When $n=1$, i.e. when $\mat{A}$ is just a vector, we denote the problem by $k$-R-ISIS.
Furthermore, in $k$-M-ISIS, we provide a specific version of $k$-M-ISIS by choosing a specific ring $\mathcal{R}$ and $\vec{u}^t = \begin{bmatrix}1 &0 &\dots &0\end{bmatrix}$.
The original definition can be found in {% cite C:ACLMT22 %}.

## Hardness
The analysis of $k$-M-ISIS in {% cite C:ACLMT22 %} yields the following results.

- $k$-R-ISIS with $g^{\*} = 1$ is as hard as [R-SIS](/sis/#ring-sis) when $k < m$ or when the system generated by $\mathcal{G}$ is efficiently invertible according to Lemmas 3 and 4 of {% cite C:ACLMT22 %}.
- $k$-M-ISIS is at least as hard as $k$-R-ISIS and $k$-M-ISIS is a true generalization of $k$-R-ISIS according to Theorems 1 and 2 of {% cite C:ACLMT22 %}.
- $(\mathcal{G}, g^{\*})$ is as hard as $(\mathcal{G}, 0)$ for any $\mathcal{G}$, i.e. the non-homogeneous variant is no easier than the homogeneous one according to Lemma 6 of {% cite C:ACLMT22 %}.
- Scaling $(\mathcal{G}, g^{\*})$ multiplicatively by any Laurent monomial does not change the hardness, e.g. we may choose to normalise instances to $g^{\*} = 1$ according to Lemma 7 {% cite C:ACLMT22 %}.

As these reductions are not interesting for applications, the authors explore attacks utilizing a direct [SIS](/sis/) attack on $\mat{A}$, finding short $\ZZ$-linear combinations of $\vec{z}\_i$, and finding $\mathbb{Q}$-linear of $\vec{z}\_i$ that produce short images in Section 4.1 of {% cite C:ACLMT22 %}.

## Constructions built from $k$-M-ISIS {#constructions}

- Vector commitment {% cite C:ACLMT22 %}

## Related Assumptions

- [Twin-$k$-M-ISIS](/twin-kmisis/) corresponds to $2k$-M-ISIS.
- [Knowledge $k$-M-ISIS](/knowledge-kmisis/) is the _knowledge_ version of $k$-M-ISIS.
- [$k$-SIS](/ksis/) inspired $k$-M-ISIS.
- [Basis-Augmented SIS](/basis/) provides a framework to build vector commitments and related primitives containing the $k$-R-ISIS vector commitment.

## Further Reading Suggestions

- [Blog entry on $k$-R-ISIS](https://martinralbrecht.wordpress.com/2022/07/20/the-k-r-isis-of-knowledge-assumption/){:target="_blank"} by Martin Albrecht
